Knowledge of the past and of the places of the earth is the ornament and food of the mind of man.
The noblest pleasure is the joy of understanding.
As a well-spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death.
Learning never exhausts the mind.
To such an extent does nature delight and abound in variety that among her trees there is not one plant to be found which is exactly like another, and not only among the plants, but among the boughs, the leaves and the fruits, you will not find one which is exactly similar to another.
Painting is concerned with all the 10 attributes of sight; which are: Darkness, Light, Solidity and Colour, Form and Position, Distance and Propinquity, Motion and Rest.
Marriage is like putting your hand into a bag of snakes in the hope of pulling out an eel.
It is better to imitate ancient than modern work.
Blinding ignorance does mislead us. O! Wretched mortals, open your eyes!
The mind of the painter must resemble a mirror, which always takes the colour of the object it reflects and is completely occupied by the images of as many objects as are in front of it.
The mind of the painter must resemble a mirror, which always takes the colour of the object it reflects and is completely occupied by the images of as many objects as are in front of it.
A beautiful body perishes, but a work of art dies not.
Why does the eye see a thing more clearly in dreams than the imagination when awake?
Tears come from the heart and not from the brain.
I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but they whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves their conduct, will pursue their principles unto death.
Where the spirit does not work with the hand, there is no art.
While I thought that I was learning how to live, I have been learning how to die.
Nature is the source of all true knowledge. She has her own logic, her own laws, she has no effect without cause nor invention without necessity.
All knowledge which ends in words will die as quickly as it came to life, with the exception of the written word: which is its mechanical part.
I have been impressed with the urgency of doing. Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Being willing is not enough; we must do.
Iron rusts from disuse; water loses its purity from stagnation... even so does inaction sap the vigor of the mind.
Nature never breaks her own laws.
In rivers, the water that you touch is the last of what has passed and the first of that which comes; so with present time.
Nothing strengthens authority so much as silence.
The beginnings and ends of shadow lie between the light and darkness and may be infinitely diminished and infinitely increased. Shadow is the means by which bodies display their form. The forms of bodies could not be understood in detail but for shadow.
The smallest feline is a masterpiece.
The painter who draws merely by practice and by eye, without any reason, is like a mirror which copies every thing placed in front of it without being conscious of their existence.
I have wasted my hours.
He who loves practice without theory is like the sailor who boards ship without a rudder and compass and never knows where he may cast.
There are four Powers: memory and intellect, desire and covetousness. The two first are mental and the others sensual. The three senses: sight, hearing and smell cannot well be prevented; touch and taste not at all.
There are three classes of people: those who see, those who see when they are shown, those who do not see.
I have offended God and mankind because my work didn't reach the quality it should have.
The greatest deception men suffer is from their own opinions.
Every action needs to be prompted by a motive.
Art is never finished, only abandoned.
The function of muscle is to pull and not to push, except in the case of the genitals and the tongue.
All our knowledge has its origins in our perceptions.
Who sows virtue reaps honor.
Anyone who conducts an argument by appealing to authority is not using his intelligence; he is just using his memory.
Where there is shouting, there is no true knowledge.
Human subtlety will never devise an invention more beautiful, more simple or more direct than does nature because in her inventions nothing is lacking, and nothing is superfluous.
In order to arrive at knowledge of the motions of birds in the air, it is first necessary to acquire knowledge of the winds, which we will prove by the motions of water in itself, and this knowledge will be a step enabling us to arrive at the knowledge of beings that fly between the air and the wind.
Just as courage is the danger of life, so is fear its safeguard.
The poet ranks far below the painter in the representation of visible things, and far below the musician in that of invisible things.
The length of a man's outspread arms is equal to his height.
You can have no dominion greater or less than that over yourself.
Beyond a doubt truth bears the same relation to falsehood as light to darkness.
The human bird shall take his first flight, filling the world with amazement, all writings with his fame, and bringing eternal glory to the nest whence he sprang.
Our body is dependant on Heaven and Heaven on the Spirit.
Time stays long enough for anyone who will use it.
Water is the driving force of all nature.
The human foot is a masterpiece of engineering and a work of art.
You do ill if you praise, but worse if you censure, what you do not understand.
The natural desire of good men is knowledge.
He who is fixed to a star does not change his mind.
The Medici created and destroyed me.
I have found that, in the composition of the human body as compared with the bodies of animals, the organs of sense are duller and coarser. Thus, it is composed of less ingenious instruments, and of spaces less capacious for receiving the faculties of sense.
Men of lofty genius when they are doing the least work are most active.
The truth of things is the chief nutriment of superior intellects.
The painter who is familiar with the nature of the sinews, muscles, and tendons, will know very well, in giving movement to a limb, how many and which sinews cause it; and which muscle, by swelling, causes the contraction of that sinew; and which sinews, expanded into the thinnest cartilage, surround and support the said muscle.
Our life is made by the death of others.
People talk to people who perceive nothing, who have open eyes and see nothing; they shall talk to them and receive no answer; they shall adore those who have ears and hear nothing; they shall burn lamps for those who do not see.
Intellectual passion drives out sensuality.
Medicine is the restoration of discordant elements; sickness is the discord of the elements infused into the living body.
Just as food eaten without appetite is a tedious nourishment, so does study without zeal damage the memory by not assimilating what it absorbs.
Science is the captain, and practice the soldiers.
Life well spent is long.
He who wishes to be rich in a day will be hanged in a year.
I have always felt it is my destiny to build a machine that would allow man to fly.
Each man is always in the middle of the surface of the earth and under the zenith of his own hemisphere, and over the centre of the earth.
How many emperors and how many princes have lived and died and no record of them remains, and they only sought to gain dominions and riches in order that their fame might be ever-lasting.
For, verily, great love springs from great knowledge of the beloved object, and if you little know it, you will be able to love it only little or not at all.
Weight, force and casual impulse, together with resistance, are the four external powers in which all the visible actions of mortals have their being and their end.
The senses are of the earth, the reason stands apart from them in contemplation.
Experience does not err. Only your judgments err by expecting from her what is not in her power.
The spirit desires to remain with its body, because, without the organic instruments of that body, it can neither act, nor feel anything.
There is no object so large but that at a great distance from the eye it does not appear smaller than a smaller object near.
Necessity is the mistress and guide of nature. Necessity is the theme and inventress of nature, her curb and her eternal law.
Many are they who have a taste and love for drawing, but no talent; and this will be discernible in boys who are not diligent and never finish their drawings with shading.
The divisions of Perspective are 3, as used in drawing; of these, the first includes the diminution in size of opaque objects; the second treats of the diminution and loss of outline in such opaque objects; the third, of the diminution and loss of colour at long distances.